feat: made initial changes for valkey docs (#4448)
platformsh/platformsh-docs: sites/platform/src/guides/drupal/valkey.md

---
title: "Using Valkey with Drupal"
sidebarTitle: "Valkey"
description: Add Valkey caching to your existing Drupal site.
weight: -70
---

[Valkey](https://valkey.io/) is an open source datastore that can be used high-performance data retrieval and key-value storage. For more information on this service, see the [dedicated Valkey page](../../add-services/valkey.md) or the [official Valkey documentation](https://valkey.io/topics/).

Follow the instructions on this page to do one of the following:

- Add and configure Valkey for Drupal if you have deployed Drupal manually.
- Fine-tune your existing configuration if you have deployed Drupal using a [{{% vendor/name %}} template](../../development/templates.md).

## Before you begin

You need:

- A [Drupal version deployed on {{% vendor/name %}}](../drupal/deploy/_index.md)
- The [{{% vendor/name %}} CLI](../../administration/cli/)
- [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/)
- The [Config Reader library](../../guides/drupal/deploy/customize.md#install-the-config-reader)

> You also need a `settings.platformsh.php` file from which you can [manage the configuration of the Valkey service](../drupal/deploy/customize.md#settingsphp).

Reviewer: It exists on the current version of the doc: https://docs.platform.sh/guides/drupal/deploy/customize.html#settingsphp

<--->

+++
title=Using explicit endpoints
+++

```yaml {configFile="app"}
# Relationships enable access from this app to a given service.
# The example below shows configuration with an explicitly set service name and endpoint.
# See the Application reference for all options for defining relationships and endpoints.
# Note that legacy definition of the relationship is still supported.
# More information: https://docs.platform.sh/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image.html#relationships
relationships:
  <RELATIONSHIP_NAME>:
    service: <SERVICE_NAME>
    endpoint: valkey
```

You can define ``<SERVICE_NAME>`` and ``<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>`` as you like, so long as it's unique between all defined services and relationships
and matches in both the application and services configuration.

The example above leverages [explicit endpoint](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#relationships) configuration for relationships.

Depending on your needs, instead of explicit endpoint configuration,
you can use [default endpoint configuration](/create-apps/app-reference/single-runtime-image#relationships).

> With the above definition, the application container now has [access to the service](#usage-example) via the relationship `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` and its corresponding [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).

Author: ```suggestion
With the above definition, the application container now has access to the service via the relationship `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` and its corresponding [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).
```

> With the above definition, the application container now has [access to the service](#2-define-the-relationship) via the relationship `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` and its corresponding [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).

Author: ```suggestion
With the above definition, the application container now has [access to the service](#usage-example-1) via the relationship `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` and its corresponding [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).
```

> With the above definition, the application container now has [access to the service](#2-define-the-relationship) via the relationship `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` and its corresponding [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).

Author: ```suggestion
With the above definition, the application container now has [access to the service](#usage-example) via the relationship `<RELATIONSHIP_NAME>` and its corresponding [`PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS` environment variable](/development/variables/use-variables.md#use-provided-variables).
```
